[LOGO WHOOSHING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
>> In August of 2012, a research
team helmed by Quentin Atkinson
of the University of Auckland
in New Zealand utilized certain
algorithmic methods which
analyzed phonetics from over
100 ancient and
modern-day languages.
Their methods were similar to
tracing evolutionary biology
by starting at the
branches of the family tree
and finding the root.
Their goal was to figure out if
all the languages in the world
derived from the same area.
In an interview
with NPR, Quentin
explained how they
gathered this data.
>> What we use are what
are called cognates.
These are words that
show similar forms that
indicates that they are
related by a common ancestry,
over 6,000 across the 200
meanings in 100 languages.
And from that, we can
build, it's our data matrix,
we call it.
And so if you imagine down
the left-hand side of the data
matrix, you've got
all your languages.
And then along the top
of the data matrix,
you've got all the
possible cognates
that we have identified.
And you fill in that
matrix by putting a 0
if that language doesn't
have the cognate and a 1
if the language does
have that cognate.
And if you fill that in
for all the cognates,
you get this sequence of 1's
and 0's for each language.
And it's a bit like
having a sequence of DNA
for each language.
And that's the data that we
then input into our analysis.
>> Through their research, they
pinned down the eight millennia
old origin of the largest
global language ever created.
They also determined
all of these languages
began in one area.
>> There are two competing
theories for where these
languages came from.
The first theory was put
forward by Marija Gimbutas,
an archaeologist.
And she argued the
languages spread out
from the Russian steppes region
about 5,000 to 6,000 years ago.
And that's linked to
archaeological evidence
for an expansion at that time.
The alternative theory
is that the languages
spread much earlier from
Anatolia, what is now Turkey.
>> This interesting study
done by Atkinson relates
to an ancient story about the
Tower of Babel in the Hebrew
Bible.
In Genesis 11:1 through 9,
it states "Everyone on Earth
once spoke the same language.
As people migrated east, they
settled in the land of Shinar."
>> For those who are
not familiar with it,
the Tower of Babel is a biblical
story about the idea of a group
of people who are all centered
in their civilisation around
a tower.
And this tower
somehow allowed them
to have all the same
language and to all be
able to speak to one another.
Then the legend
reports that there
was some sort of
destruction of the tower,
and in this aftermath
of this happening,
that the people
themselves were scattered.
And they no longer could
speak the same tongue
or the same language.
And thus, we became confused.
It's a fall from
grace-type story.
You have to
understand that there
is a very significant
difference between how
the scholarship on the
ancient civilizations
is seen in the open
unclassified world as opposed
to how it is being seen
within the secret government
and the military
industrial complex.
They are going back.
And they are looking at
every single mythology
that they can find.
And they're asking very
important questions which need
to have scientific answers.
One of the questions is, what in
the world was a Tower of Babel?
They have started to
learn that no matter
what the ancient mythology
is, you dig deep enough,
you double click on it, and
you find out, wait a minute,
there is something here that
suggests this is not a myth.
So it's very interesting
to note that in 1899
in the town of Sippar there
was a very interesting stone
tablet that was found
right near where
Babylon was originally located.
And it actually has an x marks
the spot treasure map-type
derivation of the location of
the Tower of Babel, allegedly.
Now what's
interesting about that
is that the Tower of Babel x
marks the spot location is up
in Turkey.
>> This possibly new
understanding of where
the Tower of Babel was located
coincides nicely with Anton
Parks's research of the garden
of Eden and the understanding
of the language according
to Sumerian texts.
>> [SPEAKING FRENCH]
>> We were able to locate the
divine mountain of the Anunna
gods along with
their garden of Eden,
thanks to the elements found
with Google Earth and Gerry
Zeitlin from NASA.
It took us straight to eastern
Turkey, close to road 5651.
What can be noted in the
Sumerian tablets, when they
clearly speak of creating
workers to serve the Anunnas,
the main geneticist
is always Enki.
Enki is very proud
of what he is doing.
However, he always has
to do it in secret.
And here, something important
occurs in the research
that I've carried out.
In order to be able to
secretly teach values,
besides from changing
their genetic code,
in which he probably injected
things that we cannot
comprehend nowadays, the gods
were using a specific language
in Eden, the Emean language,
the language that comes from
the skies, the language
which comes from An.
In my years of
research, I understood
that the Emesa, the
matrix language,
was mostly used by
Sumerian priestesses.
The so-called Emesa
contained more particles
than the languages
used by the male gods.
So Enki used the Emesa,
the matrix language,
to encode the ancient
languages we find on Earth.
| think that Enki had
the desire to work
for the benefit
of the human race,
to secretly bring
them knowledge.
And to be able to do that,
they had to use a code.
So they created a linguistic
code for each tribe.
And I think that regularly,
maybe every generation,
they had to change
the code to prevent
the Anunnas from finding out
about the hidden knowledge.
>> It is interesting
to note that according
to Anton's research, the
language that has been coded
into the universe for the humans
to speak is called the matrix
language.
In Sumerian, this
means the language
that the female life
creators, like Tiamat, spoke.
How has this coded
language helped
us survive against the
wrath of the demiurge?
>> This is a crucial
part of my work.
I discovered that
all common languages
were coded from Sumerian.
We can look for idioms
from anywhere we want--
African tribes, Native American
tribes, all the way to China.
When you get to the innermost
part of primitive languages,
you can always understand
the words in Sumerian.
For example, if you
take the word tool
in the language of
an African tribe,
and you translate
it into Sumerian,
it will become the thing
we use to chop wood.
The idea is a code used in
order to be able to communicate
secretly with humans.
In concrete terms, this idea
of coding language and creating
new ones with Sumerian
syllables, this desire
to be able to communicate
secretly with the human race,
is going to design the many
different languages on Earth--
old Chinese, the Hopi,
many of the ancient idioms
we find in Africa
or in Australia.
We can find common roots with
ancient German and ancient
English.
Enki knew for a fact that
human beings would not
be submissive to the
gods on the whole planet.
So he gifted them with
the ability to make tools
and, in my theory,
he also wished
to code human language so the
gods could not understand.
>> Anton Parks suggests
that once the humans had
the knowledge to
survive on Earth,
they sought to build their own
future and escape the gods.
Could there be an actual builder
of this new human settlement?
In the Hebrew Bible, it
suggests that the builder
of the Tower of Babel
was the king of Shinar.
And his name was Nimrod.
What an interesting
name for someone
who defies the laws of Yahweh
to create his own connection
to the creator.
Could Nimrod have been
the representation
of the first group
of humans to use
the knowledge taught by Enki?
>> Nimrod,
interesting character,
he was said to have
built the Tower of Babel.
He went up against
god himself, tried
to get closer than anybody
else had ever done.
As a result, god struck
down the Tower of Babel
and, as a punishment to humanity
for having attempted this act,
confused the languages so
that everybody couldn't
understand everybody else.
Is there anything more
behind this story?
Is there something
of importance?
Well, what is the
Tower of Babel?
The Babylonian civilization
is focused around Babylon.
And Babylon is in Lower Iraq.
They now see this area
as the center of reality,
the center of everything.
This is the omphalas, the axis
mundi, the axis of the Earth.
That gravitational shift
from northern Mesopotamia
to southern Mesopotamia was
the result of the Babylonians.
This is why the ancient city
of Uruk is in southern Iraq,
when all the old accounts say
that it was the ancient name
for Urfa in Southeast Turkey.
This is why Nimrod is associated
now with Babylon and not
with Southeast Turkey.
>> The biblical story of Nimrod
and his area of proposed reign
happened to be in the same
area that a group of ancient
astrologers once resided.
This group was
called the Chaldeans.
Could this ancient
group have been
practicing some of the
ancient teachings by Enki?
>> Urfa was the
stronghold of Nimrod.
This was the traditional
homeland of the Chaldeans.
They were star worshippers.
They recorded stars.
They had knowledge of comets,
knowledge of eclipses,
and everything like this.
They were the
scientists of their day.
So what Abraham
is trying to do is
knock down their beliefs, their
ideas, their mystery tradition,
and install this new idea.
So it is possible that
what he was trying to do
is to, essentially, kill off
the Western tradition that
had been that of the
Chaldeans up to this point,
and that Nimrod somehow
steps in, whoever
or whatever he represents,
to try and prevent this
from happening.
But unfortunately, according
to the legends, god intervenes,
saves Abraham, and that's
essentially the story.
So yes, there is
something in this.
I do accept that what
Abraham was trying to do
is bring in to a new
era that didn't need
our connection with the stars.
But what the implications
of that is for Judaism
or even Christianity,
I don't know.
>> Could this battle between
Abraham and Nimrod really be
representing a battle between
Enki and Enlil for the control
over the human race?
>> What the Mesopotamian
story tells us,
that Enki introduced
contention into human speech.
And there are
biblical scholars who
think that that was the basis,
then, of the Tower of Babel
story.
Now, what's
interesting though is,
earlier, Enki was said to
be the provider of wisdom.
He was said to have been
the one who wanted humanity
to have the knowledge
that would undo the gods
or the control of the gods.
So we have this
kind of conflict now
in the Mesopotamian stories.
People who have really studied
the Mesopotamian stories--
and we're talking very
good biblical scholars
and Mesopotamian scholars--
they're so ambivalent
about the Enki figure.
They say, yeah, he was
said to be this great guy.
He sometimes is
identified with the snake
in the garden of Eden.
And then he later became
identified with Prometheus
in the Greek version
of the story,
where Prometheus tries to
come down and give humanity
this certain knowledge
that would advance them.
And then the other gods
come in and say no no,
you can't do that.
And then there are all these
repercussions to humanity
in dividing them up.
The people in the
Tower of Babel story
were really anarchists who
were opposing the Archons.
And they were saying, the
heck with the Archons.
We're leaving.
We're going to establish
own little anarchy.
And we're going to move over
here and build our own city.
And we're going to go
do things on our own.
>> And what was it that they
were going to do their way?
Just eight miles north of
the ancient city of Urfa
is another famous site
known as Gobekli Tepe.
All that is revealed is
the top of what could have
been a great tower of sorts.
95% of the site remains
below ground to be uncovered.
Could the ancient humans
have gathered here
to use their knowledge
of the universe?
>> Gobekli Tepe is the
oldest stone circle complex
in the world, if you can
imagine Stonehenge in England,
and transpose it onto the top
of a mountain top in Southeast
Turkey, and then multiply
it by at least 20 times,
and then cover the stones with
beautiful carvings of animals
and representations
of abstract humans,
and give them
[? T-shaped ?] tops.
The fact is that Gobekli Tepe
is in northern Mesopotamia.
This is clearly the cradle
of civilization in this area.
This is where the
Neolithic Revolution began.
This is where even the
archaeologist Klaus Schmidt,
Gobekli Tepe, who
discovered the site,
suggests that the Anunnaki
had their power base.
Clearly, a lot of
things started here.
>> A site only becomes sacred
upon the foundations of many,
many old temples.
Gobekli Tepe is
one great example.
It's an entire artificial hill.
The clue is actually the
name, the original name.
It means potbelly
hill or the hill
of the navel in its true
context, which, to me, tells me
that it's a navel of the Earth.
And like so many other navels
of the Earth around the world,
it's a place where
the rules of physics
work in a certain way that
allows you communication
with other levels of reality.
>> The whole evolution of
language in the human Homo
sapiens sapiens brain has
been cultivated, manipulated,
and managed by technologies
that could influence the human
brain's development of language.
And that when we read
about the Tower of Babel
being a time when the human
population had one language,
had one thought
system, if it's true
that there have been competing
geopolitical territorial
forces, competing
non-humans on this planet,
and that there was a time
when humans were unified,
that would not have been a
good step for the competing
non-humans.
And it could very well be
the Tower of Babel story
was one of those moments where
humans had been homogenized.
And something did not want that
homogeneity in human thought,
humans together, humans
working as a group.
And that from the outside,
there was a disruption in what,
for just a brief
moment, may have
been a unification in thought
without war or conflict
of human beings.
>> Unification, a dangerous
thing to have if you plan
to rule over a people.
But could this unification have
been an actual tower or just
an ancient location
where people gathered
to exchange knowledge,
a location in which they
could communicate
important information?
>> Babylon is actually an old
Sumerian word which means gate
of God, which, for me and my
understanding of the ancient
mysteries, tells me
everything I need to know.
Anything referred to as a gate
of God or a navel of the Earth
is usually an energetic hotspot
where the laws of physics
are slightly
different, or just so,
that allows you to
step through a portal
into a level of existence.
For me, the Tower of Babel
essentially represents
the levels of
attainment of knowledge
that gets you to rise
slowly ever upwards
towards the mind of God,
the summit, of course,
being the connection
or the interchange
between the physical
and the non-physical.
The way that they
communicated in the old days
was through metaphor.
And the more we get
into the historical era,
the more we mistake the
metaphor for reality.
>> In one of the traditions,
Enlil just gets really annoyed
because of the noise
humanity is making.
And that this noise is too much.
Let's just get rid of these
horrible little things.
But Enki doesn't want
to go that route.
Humanity are his creatures.
And his project is to bring
wisdom and understanding
to humanity.
And again, I think
there's a beautiful--
there's a beautiful message
hidden beneath that symbolism.
>> Some experts like Jack Cary
believe the story of the Tower
of Babel is not just the
location that offered a gateway
to the gods but a location
that humans created,
a frequency that could
defy the current reality.
>> I believe, absolutely, that
the Tower of Babel was a center
where humans were being
taught divine knowledge.
And chief among those
secrets was the power
of the spoken
word, and that they
were being taught
a language, which
was forbidden by the leadership
of this extraterrestrial
intelligence to teach them.
Imagine a species that has
developed a language that
is so potent that
it literally uses
the laws of harmonic
resonance in order
to create instantaneous
change in your surroundings.
That's what they
were being taught.
And it was strictly forbidden
that the leadership looked down
and said, what, you're teaching
this invention of ours,
how to use the most
potent weapon that we have
which is our speech
to create change?
How is that going to turn out?
And this battle
between Enki and Enlil
that are claimed to have
been in charge of the planet
may have been the result
of why that center was
actually destroyed.
At some point, Enlil
was very, very irritated
with the fact that
humans, they were being
taught all of these things.
These secrets were all
considered to be forbidden.
Chief among those is the
secret of the language that
allows you to create
change in reality
at will, the construction
of words using syllables
that exhibit frequencies that
can literally cause a stone
to float in midair
by speaking a word.
That's the kind of power
that they possessed.
Sound causes change
in your surroundings
because of its
natural relationship
with the rest of creation.
A word is no less
valuable in creation
than a rock sitting there.
They were all created
by the same laws.
And the fact that you're
able to make a sound
is something that is
a universal present.
Let's call it that.
It was bestowed upon
us by the creator
of this entire universe.
It's almost as though not only
is every single physical object
in our reality connected
with all of this,
but yes, because we're a
creation of the same thing,
we're able to make these
vibrations with our bodies.
And in some occult
groups they call
them barbarous names
of incantations.
They have all of these
different sacred words
that, supposedly, if you speak,
let's say, in a ceremony,
it will cause a
particular kind of change.
That's tied in to this whole
idea of harmonic resonance.
And our bodies vibrate to
these same frequencies.
And therefore, our words
vibrate to the same frequencies.
So yeah, it's all tied together
in one big, beautiful universe.
>> If the humans were able
to control matter by using
a language that
changed frequency,
could Gobekli Tepe have been
used to harness this frequency?
>> I think of Gobekli Tepe.
I think of other monuments
that were purposely buried,
maybe because they were
too powerful, maybe
because the creatures that built
them didn't want us to destroy
ourselves with that technology.
Maybe those areas, if
you go deep enough,
have the kind of rock
strata necessary in order
to cause these vibrational
frequencies to occur.
>> Is it possible that Enki
tried to unify the ancient
humans through knowledge, but
in order to survive the wrath
of Enlil, humans had to scatter
throughout the globe using
their coded cognates?
Are these the same
cognates that Atkinson
has been piecing together?
>> When we look at the ancient
descriptions of the Tower
of Babel, for me, I look
at it as a scientist from
the physical evidence.
But the common theme
that weaves them together
when they talk
about the tower is
that it was a
warning to humankind
of our use of knowledge.
>> Some experts like Jonathan
Young believe our path
to returning to unification
is an individual journey.
>> Let me speak to
guilt for a moment,
that leaving these paradise
stories was our fault,
leaving the garden of Eden or
the fall of the Tower of Babel,
that we had something good
that we messed up through
our mistake.
This is psychotherapy 101.
This is blaming
ourselves for something
that was larger than we were.
To distribute people around
in different geographical
locations with
different languages
speaks to the diversity
of humanity and, in a way,
is respectful that there
are many different cultures.
This is, on an
individual level, what
is called the polyvocal
quality of psychology.
We have many energies,
desires, agendas, voices.
And we're struggling to
pull that all together.
This is personal work.
Collectively, we have
many voices in a community
or in nation.
After all, there probably isn't
just one path to transcendence.
There are as many as
there are seekers.
And this is a story of the many.
>> Actually, I think the
ancient Egyptians touched
on a fundamental truth,
which is each one of us,
every minute of every day,
are constantly making choices
between good and evil.
They may be very small choices.
In some cases, if you're
dealing with a president
of a major nation, that person's
choices between good and evil
may have huge implications
for everybody else.
But we're all playing
the same game.
We're all having to
make those choices.
And those choices add up to
the structure of our lives.
>> Could this structure have
been coded in our universe
and in our language to help
us understand our purpose?
Reporter Linda
Moulton Howe believes
that whatever the humans had
tapped into at Gobekli Tepe,
they knew that they
had something powerful.
They had to hide
it and disappear.
>> Whoever built Gobekli Tepe,
the fact that they buried that
very important 30 acres of these
rings of all of these limestone
columns meant something knew
that something potentially
destructive to
the whole planet--
that's the key-- potentially
destructive to the whole
planet.
And they didn't want
Gobekli Tepe destroyed.
>> Could certain humans
have buried Gobekli Tepe
because a bigger catastrophe was
about to happen that would wipe
out any trace of this knowledge?
>> Then comes the flood.
The cataclysm wipes
everything out.
But that knowledge
persists through the flood.
And after the flood,
they are again
offering the gifts of
civilization to mankind.
>> Up next, was the flood
the next attempt to destroy
the knowledge of the gods?